## Size vs. Size on disk (Windows)

### 1. Size of content vs. size of occupied disk space

(1) When we check properties of a file or a folder on Windows, there will be two types of size properties. One is  `Size` which tells us the **size of content** in this file/folder, while the other one is `Size on disk` which tells us **size of occupied disk space** by this file/folder.

(2) They are normally different because `Size` is the summation of actual sizes of files in the folder while `Size on disk` is calculated by `block size * number of blocks `, where block is the minimum allocation unit in OS and number of blocks means how many blocks are allocated to this folder. Because there are always internal fragmentations in blocks,  `Size on disk` is always larger than `Size`, but only **with a little difference** most time. 

(3) In some cases, there may be a huge difference between those two types of sizes. For example, there are lots of small files whose size is much less than block size. In this case there would be huge amount of internal fragmentations, which leads to a huge difference between `Size` and `Size on disk`.



### 2. Getting file size using Python

(1) Normally we use `os.path.getsize(file)` to get **size of file** (**size of content** instead of size on disk) in **bytes**

(2) Also we can use `os.stat(file)` with `st_size` to get **size of file content** in **bytes**:

```python
>>> import os
>>> statinfo = os.stat('somefile.txt')
>>> statinfo
(33188, 422511L, 769L, 1, 1032, 100, 926L, 1105022698,1105022732, 1105022732)
>>> statinfo.st_size
926L
```

(3) If we want to get size on disk, we have to use `os.stat(file)`  with `st_blocks `.  That is, multiply `statinfo.st_blocks` by the block size of our OS.

